# Anly-6600 final group project
This respiratory is built for the final project of graph representation learning for precision medicine

## Research question
In the field of biomedicine, due to the complexity of the biological system, there is no one-size-fits-all drug treatment for curing a specific disease. Precision medicine requires both personalized diagnostic strategies and targeted treatments. Our research is to study a binary patient classifier to predict if a patient is a responder v.s. non-responder in the
drug treatment of the inflammatory bowel disease. Knowledge graph is used to incorporate prior knowledge of biomedical interactions. 

# Code
The developed code can be grouped into ml and PrimeKG. 

## PrimeKG
PrimeKG details the steps of clep framework, and it also includes the code of cleaning the original patient-level transcriptomic gene expression data, building the subgraph of the public knowledge graph(PrimeKG). The latent representations of patients are generated by RGCN and shallow embeddings network(i.e.RotaE) in the end. 

## ML
Ml folder demonstrates how we implement four different machine learning techniques to learn a classifier to predict if a patient is a responder v.s non-responder of a drug treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. 

# Future work & discussion
- test with different software, such as DGL,stellargraph
- GNN interpretation, identify more biological players (i.e., genes, proteins, biologicalpathways, etc.) that differentiate the responders and the non-responders, such as GNN
explainner, subgraphx
- employ other methodologies for partitioning the graph into training, validation, and
testing datasets, random edge splitting potentially leads to serious bias
- form a larger graph, future study can also include link weight differnece, node features, attention
- larger GPU computational resources, currently on A100 GPU colab
- tackle batch effect concern of combining various biomedical data sources
- different threshold choices of ecdf




